# embsys310
1. Embedded device example
Using the telegraph example, and the challenges listed in the module as reference, and describe another device that you would like to discuss. Describe how you think its embedded system works, and what design challenges it presents.

I would like to discuss the Ring security contact sensor. IoT seems to be enabling a plethora of new consumer security devices that help consumers monitor and keep their homes safe. I have a Ring video doorbell device and some wifi cameras that I set up for home security and I believe my home is safer now than before.

I find these security devices very useful and I can see this market growing exponentially for the next 10 years.

This door sensor detects when a door or window is open and sends a signal wirelessly to its base station which is connected to the cloud that sends a push a notification to the user's app.
It also operates on a battery and is not expected to be changed more than once a year or so.


- The biggest challenge for this device would be the power consumption. As this is a wireless device, it needs to run on a small battery for a very long time for it to be considered a viable product.  Users would not want to replace batteries on their security sensors in their home every month.
- Another challenge is the size limit of the sensor. It cannot be too large as it would limit the application for the sensor as users would want something discreet and aethestically pleasing. A large clunky sensor would not be desirable.
- Continuing on the low power challenge would be choosing the best wireless protocol for this device that would satisfy the low power, low throughput, low cost and small footprint requirements. Choosing the right LPWAN technology to base your product on could be a daunting challenge since once chosen, it would be costly to switch or upgrade later on.
- To minimize power consumption, it would be best to minimize the wireless communication between the security sensor and the base station. It would only send a signal when a change in state is detected and in case of communication failure, it would repeat until base station acknowledges that the change in state has been recognized.
    - I would use five states:
     - Door open
     - Door closed
     - Door closed security set
     - Low battery
     - Fault
